hello and welcome to videojug we're
going to show you how to make an
exquisite but quick foie gras pate with
a sweet cherry sauce step one you will
need the following ingredients to serve
six to eight people 500 grams of fresh
duck liver at room temperature two
tablespoons of cognac two tablespoons of
sweet sherry salt white pepper one
teaspoon of sugar 200 milliliters of
sweet sherry and two tablespoons of
sugar a few green rocket salad leaves
and some coarse salt here are those
ingredients again
and you will also need these utensils a
knife a chopping board a roasting tray a
large saucepan a thermometer a slotted
spoon a small saucepan cling film step
to clean the liver a useful tip before
you begin make sure that the liver is at
room temperature otherwise it will be
too firm to clean properly
first of all separate the two halves of
the liver taking one half gently push
the sides away to reveal the veins tease
the main vein out with your fingers
continue to search for any smaller veins
repeat the same procedure with the other
half of the liver having removed the
veins place onto the roasting tray step
season the liver season first with salt
then white pepper followed by a little
sugar using your fingers sprinkle the
liver with cognac and then with the
sweet sherry spread some cling film over
the tray and push it down tightly to
cover the liver it needs to make direct
contact with the liver place in the
fridge to marinate for a minimum of two
hours or overnight if you're preparing
for the following day step 4 bring the
liver to room temperature remove the
liver from the fridge take off the cling
film and leave it to adapt to room
temperature place a large saucepan half
filled with water over medium
temperature to heat step 5
roll the liver first test the liver to
see if it's soft then slice it both
vertically and horizontally next spread
some cling film out on a flat surface
and place a third of the chopped liver
along the edge closest to you roll it up
tightly use a knife to prick and burst
any air pockets and places side spread
out another piece of cling film and put
the rolled liver along the edge holding
both ends roll it up in the second piece
of cling film as tightly as possible
then tie one end
hold onto this end and roll again to
tighten completely finally tie the other
end repeat this for the other two-thirds
step 6
poach the liver using a thermometer
check that the temperature is at 80
degrees centigrade one by one place the
rolled liver into the water and poach
for three and a half minutes
if the rolls are bigger than those our
chef has made poach them for five
minutes after three and a half minutes
using a slotted spoon remove the rolls
of liver from the water place them onto
a tray and put into the fridge to chill
overnight step 7 make the glaze heat the
saucepan over a high temperature pour in
the sherry add the sugar and bring to
the boil boil the liquid down to about
half this will take about five minutes
step 8
slice the liver make sure you cut the
foie gras while it's cold
take one roll of liver remove the end
and cut into two centimeter pieces if
you want to serve them as an appetizer
make them larger to serve on toast make
them smaller then make a shallow slice
down one sight to cleanly remove the
cling film repeat with all the rolls
step 9 serve drizzle a little of the
glaze onto a plate and arrange the
pieces of foie gras top with some rock
salt and garnish with a few leaves of
rocket serve on toast as an appetizer
and that's how to make quick foie gras
with a sweet cherry glaze the videojug
way
you